Vidyashilp University - CMRG
About  Event
What We Do
Study
Team
Research Themes
Media
Contact Us
About  Event
What We Do
Study
Team
Research Themes
Media
Contact Us
About
What We Do
Study
Team
Research Themes
Media
Contact Us
<h1 style="font-weight: 900 !important;
color: #ac162c !important;
text-align: center !important;
margin-bottom: 10px !important;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">ABOUT
Who We Are
The Centre for Market Regulations and Governance (CMRG) at Vidyashilp University is a
pioneering initiative for interdisciplinary research and education in law, economics, regulation,
and governance. Positioned at the intersection of policy and practice, CMRG advances thought
leadership, research-driven insights, and meaningful stakeholder engagement to shape the future
of regulatory governance.
Our mission is to establish regulation as a multidisciplinary field, equipping scholars,
policymakers, businesses, and regulatory bodies with the knowledge and tools necessary to
navigate complex market regulations. CMRG fosters collaboration between academia, industry,
and government to shape efficient, transparent, and effective regulatory frameworks. Through
collaborations between academia, industry, and government, CMRG is committed to advancing
best practices, strengthening institutional capacity, and enabling informed decision-making in
regulatory governance.
What We Do
CMRG enhances regulatory literacy, improves governance mechanisms, and contributes to policy
reforms through:
Regulatory Research & Thought Leadership – Conducting evidence-based studies on
evolving regulatory challenges.
Capacity Building & Training – Offering executive education, certification courses, and
workshops for regulators and regulated entities.
Policy Advocacy & Engagement – Collaborating with policymakers, industry leaders,
and international organizations to improve regulatory frameworks.
Knowledge Dissemination – Publishing policy briefs, research papers, and case studies to
contribute to academic and professional discourse.
<section class="start-date bg-blue01 container-fluid mobileonly fade-in-section desk fade-scroll fade-in visible" id="startdate" style="padding-bottom: 5px !important;background-repeat:no-repeat;
background-color: #f5f5f5 !important;">
Certificate Courses
CMRG offers specialized certificate programs tailored for regulators,
industry professionals, and scholars seeking a deeper understanding of
regulatory enforcement and compliance.
Past Events
Enforcement Process for Regulators, Regulated Entities, and Regulatory Practitioners
This domain-agnostic course provided a structured
approach to regulatory enforcement, covering procedural aspects, compliance mechanisms, and
best practices for both regulators and regulated entities.
Date:
March 10-11, 2025
Venue:
Vidyashilp University, Bangalore
Mode:
In-person
<h2 class="section-title" style="font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;
float:left;margin-left:30px;color: #ac162c !important;">Advisory Board
Prof. M.S. Sahoo
View Profile
Prof. T.S. Somashekar
View Profile
Our Team
Prof. P.G. Babu
View Profile
Prof. Roopa Madhav
View Profile
Mr. Zuno George Verghese
View Profile
Ms. Avi Singh Majithia
View Profile
<h2 class="rt-theme-block rt-section-heading" style="
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;color:
white;padding: 10px;/* background-color: lightgray;
*/Background: transparent linear-gradient(90deg, #AA182C 0%, #212059 100%) 0% 0% no-repeat padding-box !important;">
Research Themes
Regulatory Design
Regulatory frameworks play a pivotal role in shaping market dynamics by influencing
competition, fostering innovation, and safeguarding consumer welfare. Effective regulatory
design is grounded in principles of transparency, accountability, and stakeholder participation,
ensuring that policies are both fair and efficient. Tools such as regulatory impact assessments
(RIAs) are crucial in evidence-based policymaking and help evaluate the effectiveness and
consequences of regulatory interventions. Our research also explores comparative studies of
global regulatory models, offering valuable insights into best practices and their relevance to
India's diverse regulatory landscape.
Law and Economics
Law and economics play a crucial role in shaping regulatory policies, influencing market
behavior, economic growth, and governance structures. The interplay between legal frameworks
and economic principles determines the effectiveness of regulations in fostering competition,
ensuring market efficiency, and protecting consumer welfare. A well-designed regulatory system
considers the economic rationale behind competition law, market regulations, and price controls,
ensuring that interventions support innovation and entrepreneurship rather than stifle them.
Behavioral economics further highlights how regulations impact consumer and corporate
decision-making, shedding light on the unintended consequences of policy measures.
Additionally, cost-benefit analysis serves as a critical tool for evaluating regulatory policies,
ensuring that their implementation leads to optimal economic and social outcomes. By integrating
insights from both law and economics, regulators can design policies that balance efficiency,
equity, and innovation in dynamic market environments.
Utilities & Infrastructure
Utilities and infrastructure—such as energy, water, telecommunications, and transportation—are
essential for economic development and societal well-being. The regulation of utilities and
infrastructure is inherently multidisciplinary, requiring regulators to consider techno-economic,
social, and environmental factors while selecting regulatory instruments that, when effectively
implemented, foster market evolution and enhance competition among regulated entities.
Effective regulation in these sectors thus ensures fair pricing, efficiency, sustainability, and
accessibility. Our research intends to explore tariff regulations, public-private partnerships
(PPPs), smart city governance, and digital infrastructure policies to enhance service quality and
long-term sustainability. Furthermore, CMRG aspires to be a key stakeholder that brings together
like-minded experts (individual and institutional) to provide inputs to regulatory practitioners on
tackling regulatory challenges given the complexity and sector-specific characteristics of utilities
and infrastructure regulation.
Financial Regulation
Financial markets are the backbone of the economy, requiring robust regulatory oversight to
ensure stability, transparency, and consumer protection. Beyond just banking regulations, the
governance of capital markets, derivatives trading, and financial instruments plays a crucial role
in maintaining market integrity. Institutions like the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(SEBI) regulate stock exchanges, mutual funds, and corporate governance to promote fair and
efficient markets. Additionally, fintech policies, digital payments governance, and other emerging
financial markets such as cryptocurrencies are reshaping the financial landscape. Our objective is
to contribute to the development of a more robust regulatory environment that promotes financial
inclusion, market stability, and sustainable economic growth by analysing risk management
tactics, compliance systems, and development of financial instruments.
Regulating Innovation & Technology
Regulations must strike a balance between innovation and security and ethical considerations as
sectors are transformed by automation, artificial intelligence, and platform economies. Our
research intends to examine data privacy laws, AI governance, digital marketplaces, and
cybersecurity regulations to ensure technology serves society responsibly. We focus on creating
adaptive regulatory frameworks that encourage innovation while mitigating risks.
In this regard, corporate governance is essential for monitoring technology developments and
guaranteeing accountability, openness, and moral decision-making in businesses. With the
increasing reliance on digital systems and data-driven operations, governance frameworks must
evolve to address risks related to algorithmic bias within organisations, cybersecurity threats, and
digital fraud. Our research intends to explore best practices in corporate governance for tech-
driven businesses, emphasizing the importance of regulatory compliance, responsible innovation,
and sustainable business practices in the digital era.
Social & Environmental Regulation
Governments and businesses are increasingly held accountable for sustainability, corporate
responsibility, and social equity. Our research will look into ESG (Environmental, Social, and
Governance) compliance, labour rights regulations, and circular economy initiatives. We analyse
how laws and policies can drive businesses toward ethical practices, sustainability, and long-term
resilience in a changing global landscape.
PUBLICATIONS AND MEDIA
Are regulators becoming managers ?
Read More
Codifying citizens' role in lawmaking for more accountable legislation
Read More
Responsible regulation: The key to reform in an era of deregulation
Read More
What matters in regulatory governance
Read More
Party Autonomy: The Soul of Arbitration
Read More
Fostering a business-friendly economy
Read More
<section class="start-date bg-blue01 container-fluid mobileonly fade-in-section desk fade-scroll fade-in visible" style="
background-image: url('https://vidyashilp.edu.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/Blog-Bottom-Image.jpg');
border-bottom: 5px solid rgb(175, 35, 35) !important;">
<div class="connect" style="
margin-top: 27px;
"><a href="#" class="connect-btn" data-toggle="modal" data-target="#connectModal" style="
color: white;
height: fit-content;
width: fit-content;
font-size: 1.6rem;
margin-bottom: 20px;
font-family: CeraProBlack;
white-space: nowrap;
text-decoration: none;
font-family: 'Nunito', sans-serif;
font-weight: 700;">CONTACT US
<p style="margin-top: 5px !important;
font-family: 'Nunito', sans-serif;
font-weight: 700;color:white !important;">For inquiries, collaborations, or to stay updated on CMRG’s research and events, reach out to us
at
E-Mail:
cmrg@vidyashilp.edu.in
#125, Bettenahalli, Kundana Hobli,  Chapparkallu Road, Bengaluru - 562110
Schools
School of Computational and Data Sciences
School of Liberal Arts and Design Studies
School of Business Studies
School of Legal Studies and Governance
Quick Links
About
Programs
Admission
Enquiry
Privacy & Policy
Ombudsperson
Other Links
Media
Mandatory Documents
Student Grievance
Sitemap
Contact Us
© 2025 Vidyashilp.
Vidyashilp University is established under Karnataka Act No.20 of 2021