Faculty Careers | Top Colleges In Bangalore | Vidyashilp University
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P8HNT4Q"
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
CONNECT WITH US
<button type="button" class="custom-close-btn" onclick="closeModal()" aria-label="Close" style="
margin-top: 15px;
background-color: darkblue;
color: white;
margin-left: 44px !important;
">×
Applying For
Dean
Professor
Digital Performance Executive
Social Media Executive
Outreach Manager
Upload Application
Upload Resume
Submit
INVITING
LEADERS AND LUMINARIES
TO BUILD A UNIVERSITY
Join a community of visionaries and collaborate with some of the brightest minds in education and the industry
Vidyashilp University is the culmination of a four-decade legacy of excellence in
education. Our community is committed to sculpting education for students, and
not the other way around. We aim to foster an environment and culture of
collaboration, responsiveness, high performance and service. In line with this, we
strive to provide a unique Vidyashilp
experience to our students and faculty, with a focus on nurturing leaders who serve
society.  At Vidyashilp University, we enable learning in an interdisciplinary structure. The
schools under the University do not function in silos, but are interconnected to
ensure that students not only build domain expertise, but also understand its
applications across contexts. Therefore, our faculty collaborate and work together
to build a strong curriculum and learning journey that integrates new-age domains
and societal, industry, and sustainbility imperatives.
LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR COMMUNITY
<h3 class="mb-0" style="
color: #00468C;
color: #00468C;
font-size: 2rem;
line-height: 1.2;
font-family: 'CeraProBlack';
font-weight: 700;
margin-bottom: 40px;
">Current Openings
Job ID
Department
Job Title
Experience
Action
VU477564
Teaching
Faculty Hiring – School of Design
1+ years
Apply
VU835850
Teaching
Faculty Hiring – School of Business and Entrepreneurship
1+ years
Apply
VU982384
Teaching
Faculty Hiring – School of Engineering & Technology
1+ years
Apply
Join our Talent Network
If you don’t see a domain that suits you, share your CV with us and we will keep you informed about new
opportunities that match your interests.
GROWTH IS A RESULT OF FORCES WORKING TOGETHER
Explore the VU Culture
We believe that you will translate your expertise, experience, and passion into a successful career here at Vidyashilp University. You will be able to contribute significantly to laying the foundations for our University, while also experiencing personal and professional fulfilment.
With a mission to be at the leading edge of knowledge, we encourage our faculty to grow in domain expertise by engaging in research, consulting, and extension into new or interdisciplinary work.
The duties of a founding faculty are varied. From routine functions to conceptualizing student activities, there's a lot that needs to be done. Faculty can also get involved in administration work, community interface, networking, and more
Innovate. Learn. Collaborate. At VU, we know that innovation is the key to success. That's why we encourage our community to do all of the above! We foster a student-centric learning environment. To further strengthen this, we encourage our community to strive for innovation in pedagogy, work on new course development, and explore emerging domains. Faculty can also collaborate and teach a course to enhance our interdisciplinary approach.
WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT
Freedom for Innovation and Research Work
Professional and Leadership Development
State of the Art IT and Infrastructure
Opportunities for Community and Social Engagements
Medical Insurance and Family Coverage
Relocation Assistance
VU IN BENGALURU
The city of innovation, Bengaluru is home to about 15000 start-ups, 1500+ GICs, and global organizations. Known as one of the education hubs of India, the city offers a plethora of opportunities. Vidyashilp University is located in Bengaluru where innovation and higher education go hand-in-hand. We've established a strong network of industry partners that allows us to continue working toward our vision of redefining higher education
Bengaluru is a cultural melting pot and the perfect intersection for personal and professional growth. In a city that offers everything from the best schools and residential communities to healthcare facilities, you can be assured of having a great living experience. Bengaluru is one of the best places to live in, especially with its pleasant weather all year round.
CONNECT WITH US
Take your first step towards becoming an Innovation Leader.
Share your updated CV with our Human Resource team.
E:
careers@vidyashilp.edu.in
#125, Bettenahalli, Kundana Hobli,  Chapparkallu Road, Bengaluru - 562110
For all admission-related queries,
Write to:    admission@vidyashilp.edu.in
Or call the admissions team +91 8069630500
Schools
- School of Engineering and  Technology
- School of Liberal Arts and  Sciences
- School of Law
- School of Design
- School of Business and  Entrepreneurship
Quick Links
- About
- Programs
- Admission
- Enquiry
- Privacy & Policy
- Ombudsperson
- Media
- Mandatory Documents
- Student Grievance
- Sitemap
- Contact Us
© 2024 Vidyashilp.  Vidyashilp University is established under Karnataka Act No.20 of 2021