FOHE Summit
<ul class="navbar-nav ms-auto" style="font-weight: 500;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">
HOME
AGENDA
SHILP SHOWCASE
VENUE
GALLERY
<div class="menu-links" style="font-weight: 900;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">
Home
AGENDA
SHILP SHOWCASE
VENUE
GALLERY
The Future of Higher Education 2025
Witness a disruptive shift in undergraduate learning
A Unique Learning Experience
<p class="section-text" style="text-align: left;font-weight: 900;
font-family: 'Nunito', sans-serif; ">
Higher education is evolving, and so are the skills needed to succeed. Last year, thought leaders,
industry experts, and academic pioneers came together to challenge the status quo and redefine
how higher education must progress.
This year, the conversation moves forward. Experts from academia and industry, along with key
change-makers, will explore how interdisciplinary education is preparing students to navigate a
rapidly changing world. From emerging career pathways to future-ready skills, this event uncovers
what it takes to build a bold and successful career.
Our Speakers
Exciting speakers at the event
View Profile
Ms. Rashmi Bansal
Best-Selling Author & Co-founder,
JAM (Just Another Magazine)
View Profile
Dr. Tirthankar Patnaik
Chief Economist, at
National Stock Exchange
Ms. Rashmi Bansal
BEST SELLING AUTHOR | ENTREPRENEUR
IIM AHMEDABAD
About the Speaker
Rashmi Bansal is a writer, entrepreneur, and a motivational speaker. She has authored 11 bestselling
books on entrepreneurship which have sold more than 1.2 million copies and been translated in 12
languages, including Korean and Vietnamese.
Rashmi’s first book Stay Hungry, Stay Foolish broke all records and sold over 300,000 copies. It is still
hailed as one of the best entrepreneurial books. Her second and third books Connect the Dots and I
Have a Dream respectively were nominated for the esteemed ‘Economist Crossword Popular Choice
Award’.
She was also a jury member of NDTV’s Icons of Bharat, a show that focuses on entrepreneurs who
made it from the ground up.
Entrepreneurial Leadership
Rashmi co-founded JAM (Just Another Magazine), one of India’s first youth magazines, and later
launched Bloody Good Book, a crowdsourced publishing platform. Both ventures reflect her passion
for youth voices and new authors.
Academic & Mentorship Roles
She is Visiting Faculty at Ashoka University, where she teaches entrepreneurship, and regularly
mentors students and young founders. With an IIM Ahmedabad MBA and a background in
economics, she bridges academic rigor with real-world insight.
Recent Contributions
In 2024, she authored ‘Who Said She Can’t?’, highlighting women IITians in STEM. She continues to
speak at leading summits like Grace Hopper India, offering sharp insights on innovation, education,
and entrepreneurship.
Dr. Tirthankar Patnaik
Chief Economist
National Stock Exchange
About the Speaker
Dr. Tirthankar Patnaik is Chief Economist at the National Stock Exchange of India. He has over two
decades of experience in the Indian capital markets, academic research, credit research in macro
and sector strategy, quantitative finance and consumer banking.
He started his career with a stint at the Global Consumer Group of Citibank in India and Europe. His
next focus area was equity strategy for institutional clients, initially with Citigroup Global Markets as
India equity strategist, and then with Religare Capital Markets Ltd, as the India Strategist and Chief
Economist. In his last assignment prior to joining NSE, he was the Chief Strategist and Head of
Research for India, at Japan-based Mizuho Bank.
Academic & Industry Engagements
Dr. Tirthankar is a sought-after speaker at top institutes like BITS Pilani and IIMs, and has moderated
forums like the IMF-NSE seminar. His focus is on bridging academia and industry, and preparing
students for the future of finance.
Thought Leadership & Publications
At NSE, he leads key research including the Market Pulse report and the NSE-EY Cost of Capital –
India Insights 2024. His insights are regularly cited by leading media, including Bloomberg, for their
relevance to market movements and economic policy.
Expertise & Recognition
A Ph.D. economist with hands-on market experience, Dr. Patnaik advises on macro trends,
regulation, and capital markets. Known for simplifying complex ideas, he champions interdisciplinary
skills—economics, tech, and data—for the next-gen finance professional.
Elite Panelist
Mr. Varun Dev
CEO - UCAM,
Vidyashilp Alumini Voices
Ms. Shashwati Rao
Business Manager of Operations - Online Team
Vidyashilp Alumini Voices
Prof. Umesh Mahatani
Program Chair - BMS (Hons) Program
Vidyashilp University
Featured Sessions
Where interdisciplinary learning takes centre stage
Session
Description
Keynote Address
A renowned thought leader unpacks the future of work and the skills that will define a successful career.
Interactive Session
A deep dive into India's digital transformation and the evolving role of higher education.
Panel Discussion
Industry leaders and academic experts bridge the gap between higher education and real-world impact.
Faculty Interaction
An open forum for students and parents to engage with our faculty and explore interdisciplinary learning.
<h3 class="gradient-text2" style="text-align:left;font-size: 28px;font-weight: 900;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">
SHILP SHOWCASE
Interdisciplinary and experiential learning takes center stage at the SHILP SHOWCASE.
From design concepts rooted in real-world challenges to tech-enabled innovations and
research-driven insights, this exhibition offers a firsthand look at the kind of bold,
future-facing work Vidyashilp students are doing. Parents and guests will have the opportunity
to explore student-led projects that reflect how classroom learning translates into practical,
meaningful outcomes.
The showcase also features captivating dance performances by our students.
These performances highlight the creative energy and diverse talents that thrive on
campus, celebrating not just academic excellence, but a well-rounded, holistic student life.
Get directions to the event venue
Join us at the venue, mapped for your convenience.
Copyright © 2025 VIDYASHILP UNIVERSITY