India Rising Event | Vidyashilp University
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WW96NSW5"
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
<ul class="navbar-nav ms-auto" style="font-weight: 500;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">
HOME
AGENDA
WORKSHOPS
VENUE
GALLERY
PREVIOUS EDITION
India Rising 2024
Home
Agenda
Workshops
Venue
Gallery
Previous Edition
India Rising 2024
India Rising 2025
Aspiring Undergrads Summit
#PurposeOverPassport
Think the why before the where
<iframe width="750" height="353" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5AMST9jZ_KA?autoplay=1&mute=1&controls=0&modestbranding=1&rel=0&loop=1&playlist=5AMST9jZ_KA" title="YouTube Video" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" style="
max-width: 100%;
border: 1px solid #ddd;
border-radius: 12px;
box-shadow: 0 8px 24px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.15);
">
<h2 class="section-title" style="text-align: left;font-weight: 900;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">
INDIA VS ABROAD ?
It’s not about where you go.
It’s about why you choose to go.
<p class="section-text" style="text-align: left;font-weight: 900;
font-family: 'Nunito', sans-serif; ">
Every year, thousands of Indian students look overseas for undergraduate education
— chasing global exposure, prestigious campuses, and the promise of better opportunities.
But the world is changing.
With rising costs, tightening immigration laws,
and a rapidly evolving
Indian education landscape, it’s time to ask a more fundamental question:
Are we choosing the right destination — or just the default one?
Join us for a one-of-a-kind summit where Bangalore’s brightest undergraduates-in-the-making
come together to explore if staying back might be the most forward-looking move.
Event Highlights
Kick off & Keynotes
Start your day with powerful keynotes, bold ideas, and engaging discussions
that set the stage for India’s rapid rise — and your role in it.
Hear from thought leaders, industry voices, and education pioneers
as they share insights that challenge, inspire, and ignite your
ambition.
Brainwaves in Action
Immerse yourself in interactive workshops and interdisciplinary contests designed
to challenge and inspire. Collaborate with peers,
tackle real-world problems, and present your ideas to mentors and
experts — all while exploring how learning turns into impact.
Also, an exclusive Educators’ Panel Discussion that will throw light on Higher Education Choices.
Engage & Experience
Step into an interactive arena filled with student showcases,
career zones, creative corners, and dynamic exhibits.
Explore future-ready ideas, connect with like-minded changemakers,
and gain clarity on your path ahead through personalized counselling,
scholarship insights, and UG admissions guidance.
The Transformative Finale
Celebrate bold ideas and rising talent as contest winners and changemakers take the spotlight. The event concludes with a vibrant awards ceremony, marking the perfect close to your India Rising experience.
Keynote Speaker
Prof. Partha Ray
Director, National Institute of Bank Management
Former Adviser to the Executive Director,
IMF, Washington D.C
Prof. Partha Ray
Director, National Institute of Bank Management
Former Adviser to the Executive Director,
IMF, Washington D.C
About the Speaker
A distinguished economist, he holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Mumbai, along with advanced training at the University of Oxford. He has served in leadership roles at the Reserve Bank of India, as Adviser at the IMF, and as Professor at IIM Calcutta. His research spans macroeconomics, monetary policy, banking, and global finance, with numerous books and journal publications to his credit. Widely respected for his expertise, he continues to shape policy discourse and academic thought in India’s financial and economic landscape.
Mr. Sajan Poovayya
Senior Advocate | Supreme Court of India
About the Speaker
From aspiring neurosurgeon to one of India’s most celebrated legal minds,
Sajan Poovayya’s journey is proof that life’s most transformative paths are often the
ones less expected. Choosing law over medicine — guided by conviction,
not convention — he graduated from the National Law School of
India University and built Poovayya & Co. from the ground up
into a nationally respected law firm.
Appointed as Senior Advocate in the Supreme Court of India in 2012 and serving as Additional
Advocate General for Karnataka, Poovayya has never shied away from complexity —
whether in defending constitutional values, navigating high-stakes corporate battles,
or engaging with governance at the highest levels.
His story is about more than legal victories. It’s about embracing risk,
thinking beyond the obvious, and having the courage to lead change when
it matters most. At India Rising, he brings that spirit to inspire educators
and students to make informed, fearless choices that shape the India of 2047.
Dr. Tirthankar Patnaik
Chief Economist
National Stock Exchange
About the Speaker
Dr. Tirthankar Patnaik is Chief Economist at the National Stock Exchange of India. He has over two
decades of experience in the Indian capital markets, academic research, credit research in macro
and sector strategy, quantitative finance and consumer banking.
He started his career with a stint at the Global Consumer Group of Citibank in India and Europe. His
next focus area was equity strategy for institutional clients, initially with Citigroup Global Markets as
India equity strategist, and then with Religare Capital Markets Ltd, as the India Strategist and Chief
Economist. In his last assignment prior to joining NSE, he was the Chief Strategist and Head of
Research for India, at Japan-based Mizuho Bank.
Academic & Industry Engagements
Dr. Tirthankar is a sought-after speaker at top institutes like BITS Pilani and IIMs, and has moderated
forums like the IMF-NSE seminar. His focus is on bridging academia and industry, and preparing
students for the future of finance.
Thought Leadership & Publications
At NSE, he leads key research including the Market Pulse report and the NSE-EY Cost of Capital –
India Insights 2024. His insights are regularly cited by leading media, including Bloomberg, for their
relevance to market movements and economic policy.
Expertise & Recognition
A Ph.D. economist with hands-on market experience, Dr. Patnaik advises on macro trends,
regulation, and capital markets. Known for simplifying complex ideas, he champions interdisciplinary
skills—economics, tech, and data—for the next-gen finance professional.
Panelists/Speakers
Mr. Sajan Poovayya
Senior Advocate,
Supreme Court of India
About the Speaker
From aspiring neurosurgeon to one of India’s most celebrated legal minds,
Sajan Poovayya’s journey is proof that life’s most transformative paths are often the ones
less expected. Choosing law over medicine — guided by conviction, not convention —
he graduated from the National Law School of India University and built
Poovayya & Co. from the ground up into a nationally respected law firm.
Appointed as Senior Advocate in the Supreme Court of India in
2012 and serving as Additional Advocate General for Karnataka,
Poovayya has never shied away from complexity — whether in defending
constitutional values, navigating high-stakes corporate battles,
or engaging with governance at the highest levels.
His story is about more than legal victories. It’s about embracing risk,
thinking beyond the obvious, and having the courage to lead change when
it matters most. At India Rising, he brings that spirit to inspire educators
and students to make informed, fearless choices that shape the India of 2047.
Ms. Namita Mehta
President and Partner,
The Red Pen
Master’s in Biochemistry - University of Oxford
About the Speaker
Namita drives business growth and strategic partnerships at
The Red Pen. She represents the firm on global education
forums and has been instrumental in building alliances,
including a landmark collaboration with U.S. News & World Report.
Her accolades include the BW Education 40 Under 40 award, judging
the PIE Education Awards in 2024 and 2023 and being recognised as one
of The PIE Live Asia Pacific’s 50 Voices in Leadership.
She was shortlisted twice for the HerRising Awards in the “Women in Education”
category. As a thought leader, she speaks on panels hosted by
institutions such as HSBC, Ashoka University, IC3, and Master’s Union.
She also contributes to leading publications like the Economic Times, Mint,
and Hindustan Times. She serves on the advisory board of The Outreach Collective.
Prof. Chandan Gowda
Professor and Dean, School of Liberal Arts & Sciences
PhD in Sociology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA
About the Speaker
Prof. Chandan Gowda obtained his Bachelor's degree in Arts (social science)
from St. Joseph’s College, Bengaluru and an MA in Sociology from the University of Hyderabad.
He obtained his PhD Certificate from the University of Pittsburgh in Cultural Studies.
He then moved to the Department of Sociology at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
which had a strong research programme in historical sociology, and obtained his PhD there.
He subsequently took up the position of Associate Professor of Sociology,
Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion at the National Law School of India,
Bengaluru and later served as Professor of Sociology at Azim Premji University,
Bengaluru. He held the position of Ramakrishna Hegde Chair Professor of
Decentralization and Development at the Institute for Social and Economic Change,
Bengaluru, until recently. His areas of research include Indian intellectual history
and modern Kannada literature and cinema.
Besides academic publications, he has translated Kannada
fiction and non-fiction into English. He has also directed
Sahitya Sahavasa (In the Company of Literature), a series of
video lectures of U. R. Ananthamurthy on modern Kannada writers,
which was telecast on Doordarshan in 2014. He has organized workshops
and panel discussions involving academics and artists, written extensively
in Indian newspapers (The Hindu, The Mint, Indian Express, Hindustan Times),
and participated frequently in panel discussions on national television.
All of these activities have flowed from his belief that he should be engaged
in non-academic public fora. He has served on the juries for the Fiction as well
as the Non-Fiction Prizes for The Hindu Lit for Life Festivals. He contributed a weekly
column, Culture and Politics, in Bangalore Mirror for over five years and has als
contributed a monthly column, The Living Stream, in Deccan Herald since 2019.
Dr. Tania Islam
Assistant Professor,
School of Liberal Arts & Design,
Vidyashilp University
Big Panel Moderator
About the Speaker
Dr. Tania Islam is an Assistant Professor in the School of Liberal Arts and Design Studies at Vidyashilp University. Prior to joining VU, she was an Assistant Professor at Adamas University, in Kolkata. Dr. Islam has more than a decade of experience teaching core English, interdisciplinary foundation, and writing courses. She received her Ph.D. in English from Temple University in Philadelphia (U.S.A.) She holds a double Master’s in English: one from the University of Calcutta, and another from Temple University. While at Temple, she received her “Teaching in Higher Education” and “Online Canvas Teaching” certifications as well. Dr. Islam’s research interests showcase her training in core Liberal Arts and interdisciplinary domains. Her doctoral dissertation titled “Things Left Unsaid: Historical Silences and Multiethnic Women’s Fiction” examined the ways in which narratives plug historical gaps. As such, she enjoys the challenge of teaching numerous courses at the same time, but the one course close to her heart will always be a course on food culture which she had designed while at Temple University. Presently, she is working on her first book project, which is a reworking and expansion of her doctoral thesis.
Mr. Vishnuteerth Agnihotri
Co-Founder and Academic Director,
GenWise
About the Speaker
Vishnuteerth Agnihotri is Co-Founder and Academic Director of GenWise, a pioneering organization in gifted education and
enrichment learning. With over 20 years in education after a corporate career, he has led several pioneering initiatives - from
creating the ASSET diagnostic assessments and Mindspark adaptive systems, to designing My Misconception Mentor, a
cross-country teacher development program. At GenWise, he has enabled 100+ advanced online courses and India’s flagship
residential summer program for gifted students, while also curating enrichment camps for Emirati students in Sharjah. An IIT
Madras graduate, Vishnuteerth has spoken at global forums including NAGC (USA) and UNESCO MGIEP, and continues to advise
schools on preparing students for excellence in a shifting global landscape.
Ms. Summiya Yasmeen
Co-founder and Managing Editor,
Education World
Educator Panel 2 Moderator
About the Speaker
Summiya Yasmeen is Co-founder and Managing Editor of Education World, India’s premier human development magazine, where
she has shaped educational discourse for over 26 years. With her extensive journalism
background from Asia Journalism College and academic foundation from Mount Carmel College, she has established herself as a
leading voice in educational media and policy. As a pioneering figure in education
journalism, Summiya has dedicated her career to advancing human development through
thoughtful editorial leadership and innovative content creation. Her work at Education World
has influenced educational practices and policies across India, making her a respected
authority in the intersection of media, education, and social development initiatives.
Dr. Lalith Prasad
Head of Training and Professional
Development for South Asia,
Cambridge Assessment
Educator Panel 1 Moderator
About the Speaker
Dr. Lalith Prasad is Head of Training and
Professional Development for South Asia at
Cambridge Assessment, where he leverages
his extensive expertise in educational
consulting and nonprofit management. With a
Master’s in Education from Kuvempu
University, Dr. Prasad brings proven
experience in program evaluation, teacher
training, and organizational development. His
skill set encompasses public speaking,
proposal writing, and strategic program
implementation across diverse educational
contexts. As a seasoned consultant, he has
demonstrated success in driving professional
development initiatives and building capacity
within nonprofit organizations, making him a
valuable leader in advancing educational
standards and training excellence throughout
the South Asian region.
Ms. Geeta Jayanth
Head of School,
Chaman Bhartiya School,
Bangalore
Dr. J. Bhuvaneswari
Director and Principal,
Presidency School
Bangalore South
Prof. Chandan Gowda
Dean, School of Liberal Arts & Sciences, Vidyashilp University
Dr. Tania Islam
Assistant Professor,
School of Liberal Arts & Design, Vidyashilp University
Big Panel Moderator
Mr. Sajan Poovayya
Senior Advocate, Supreme Court of India
Ms. Namita Mehta
President, The Red Pen
Mr. Vishnuteerth Agnihotri
Co-Founder and Academic Director,
GenWise
Ms. Summiya Yasmeen
Co-founder and Managing Editor,
Education World
Educator Panel 2 Moderator
Dr. Lalith Prasad
Head of Training and Professional,
Development for South Asia,
Cambridge Assessment
Educator Panel 1 Moderator
Dr. Angelo Michael D'Cruize
Director - Academics,
Presidency School,
Bangalore North
Jury
Mr. Sajan Poovayya
Senior Advocate,  Supreme Court of India
Prof. Chandan Gowda
Professor and Dean,
School of Liberal Arts & Sciences,
Vidyashilp University
<div class="speaker-box hide-on-mobile" onclick="'popup1')" style="border: none !important;box-shadow: none !important;
background-image: url(https://vidyashilp.edu.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/bodymob1.png);">
<div class="speaker-box hide-on-mobile" style="border: none !important;box-shadow: none !important;
background-image: url(https://vidyashilp.edu.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/bodymob1.png);">
Featured Sessions
Where interdisciplinary learning takes centre stage
Session
Description
The Big Keynote
Get ready to dive into "India Rising and Bengaluru's Role in the Growth" with an insider’s perspective on our booming economy.
The Big Debate
Expert Panel Debate - Reimagining India vs Abroad in a Shifting Global Landscape Can’t decide where to study? Our expert panel will discuss the pros and cons, the what-ifs, and the game-changers.
VU's Future Icons
VU Shilpites share how interdisciplinary learning and future-focused education redefined their goals and aspirations.
Learning Workshops
Engage in Interdisciplinary Workshops, led by VU Shilpites and faculty.
Agenda
<h3 class="gradient-text2" style="text-align:left;font-size: 28px;font-weight: 900;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">
Workshops
TechVenture Challenge
An immersive startup experience for young innovators to: - Step into the shoes of a tech founder -
Solve real-world problems with cutting-edge tech - Craft a compelling startup pitch
Innovators’ Junction
A creative space for young minds to: - Blend economics, psychology & design
- Explore innovation through systems thinking - Create real-world
solutions for everyday problems
Crime Lab Challenge
A gripping experience into the world of forensics and law: -
Step into the role of a crime scene investigator - Apply logic,
reasoning, and teamwork - Solve a mystery based on evidence and deduction
Know More
Venue
<div class="venue-name" style="    font-family: 'Nunito', sans-serif;
font-weight: 900 !important;color:white !important;">Prestige Falcon Towers
<div class="venue-address" style="font-family: 'Nunito', sans-serif;
font-weight: 900 !important;color:white !important;">
19, Brunton Rd, Craig Park Layout,
Ashok Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560025
India
Copyright © 2025 VIDYASHILP UNIVERSITY