India Rising
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WW96NSW5"
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
<ul class="navbar-nav ms-auto" style="font-weight: 500;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">
HOME
AGENDA
WORKSHOPS
VENUE
GALLERY
PREVIOUS EDITION
India Rising 2024
Home
Agenda
Workshops
Venue
Gallery
Previous Edition
India Rising 2024
<section class="agenda-section" style="padding: 30px 20px;text-align: center;
background-image: url(https://vidyashilpimages.com/zoho_back.png);">
Workshops & Contests: Learning by Doing in a Problem-Solving Sprint
An exciting opportunity for students to go beyond classrooms—learn, apply, and compete in a fast-paced, interdisciplinary problem-solving sprint
Three immersive tracks combine expert-led workshops with high-energy contests, challenging students to turn ideas into real-world solutions through creativity, critical thinking, and collaboration.
<section class="event-partners-section" style="
background: linear-gradient(90deg, #5f6df5 0%, #e43e77 100%);
padding: 30px 20px;
color: white;
font-family: 'Segoe UI', sans-serif;
">
💡  TechVenture Challenge
Workshop – Your First Tech Startup
Step into the shoes of a tech founder! Learn how to turn big ideas into real-world impact through problem-solving, innovation, and a bold entrepreneurial mindset. Get ready to imbibe the intricacies of building your own startup from scratch!
Contest – VU Shark Tank
Pitch. Persuade. Prevail. Take on Bengaluru’s real-world challenges with cutting-edge drone tech. Craft an impactful business plan, showcase your entrepreneurial edge,
and face the ultimate test of your vision in this high-stakes, tech-driven contest!
🎨 Innovators’ Junction
Workshop – The Art of Decisions
Gear up for an electrifying experience where economics, psychology,
and design collide to spark innovation! Discover how decision-making,
branding, and user-centred design can be combined to create impactful
solutions for real-world challenges.
Contest – The Organic Chef
Bring your ideas to life! Use your learnings from the workshop to
design a seamless system that connects organic produce to consumers.
Then, design an intuitive and visually engaging app interface that makes
accessing organic food effortless in this thrilling, hands-on contest.
🕵️ Crime Lab Challenge
Workshop – The Science of Investigation
Dive into the thrilling world of crime scene investigation with an
immersive workshop that introduces the essentials of law, crime, and
the investigation process. Participants will learn to approach a
simulated crime scene, gather key information, analyse evidence,
reconstruct events, and apply their critical thinking skills and
legal reasoning to solve the crime.
Contest – Crime Scene Investigator
Put your investigative skills to the test. Participants will solve a staged crime scene mystery by putting together evidence, building a case theory, and presenting their findings on Contest Submission Sheets, which will be evaluated.
Copyright © 2025 VIDYASHILP UNIVERSITY