PhD Program in bangalore | PhD Colleges in Bangalore - Vidyashilp University
Overview
Specialization Areas
Overview
Specialization Areas
APPLY NOW
IT TAKES A
CHANGE-MAKER
TO BE   Curious
We believe that the future is shaped by those who create it. With a research and innovation culture, Vidyashilp University aims to develop future leaders who will contribute towards the development of society.
Our focus on new-age emerging domains from Data Science to Psychology, emphasises industry-based research needs and unlocks its potential to impact our world. Therefore, our scholars are encouraged to engage in interdisciplinary research, facilitated by a platform for domain experts to interact and collaborate with one another.                  RESEARCH SPECIALIZATIONS
As we continue to work in emerging areas of social relevance, the Ph.D. program at VU features the following specialization areas in its founding year
COMPUTER SCIENCE
Image Processing
Internet of Things
Algorithms
DATA SCIENCE
Artificial Intelligence
Machine Learning
Natural Language Processing
Deep Learning
Multi Modal Learning
Audio & Video Analytics
MATHEMATICS &
STATISTICS
Fractional Calculus
Wavelets
Statistics
MATERIAL SCIENCE
Gas Sensors
Photocatalytic Dye Degradation
Water Splitting
ECONOMICS
International Economics
Gender Economics
Indian Economics
PSYCHOLOGY
Visual Perception
Attention
Memory
Well-Being
Identity
Literature
Gender
Memory
Trauma
Narratology
Diaspora
SOCIOLOGY & ANTHROPOLOGY
Urban Studies
Religion and Well-being
Migration and Gender
Law
Human Rights Law
Sanitation Law and Policy
Environmental Law
Administrative Law
Constitutional Law
Technology Law and AI Ethics
Law and Gender Justice
Business Studies
Green HRM, Employee Psychology,
Technology and HRM,Occupational Stress,
Workplace Violence,Sustainable Workplaces,
Diversity and Inclusion at Workplace.
Buying Behaviour,Generative AI and Digital
Transformation in Marketing,
Sustainable Marketing and Responsible Consumption
COMPUTER SCIENCE       DATA SCIENCE      MATHEMATICS & STATISTICS      MATERIAL SCIENCE      ECONOMICS      PSYCHOLOGY      Literature      SOCIOLOGY & ANTHROPOLOGY       Law      Business Studies
KNOW MORE                  RESEARCH SUPERVISORS
Working with Vidyashilp University's award-winning faculty, you'll explore the complex problems facing today's global environment—and find ways to solve them.
Know More →
Dr. Anupama A. V.
anupama.av@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. Bijil Prakash
bijil.prakash@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Prof. Smitha Rao
smitha.rao@vidyashilp.edu.in
Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. N. Mehala
mehala.n@vidyashilp.edu.in
Associate Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. Shakti Chaturvedi
shakti.chaturvedi@vidyashilp.edu.in
Associate Professor, School of Business Studies
Know More →
Dr. Amlanika Bora
amlanika.b@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Legal Studies and Governance
Know More →
Dr. Shital Dineshchandra Bhatt
shital.bhatt@vidyashilp.edu.in
Associate Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. Sheetal Lakhani
sheetal.lakhani@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor,School of Liberal Arts and Design Studies
Know More →
Dr. Gargi S Kumar
gargi.kumar@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Arts and Design Studies
Know More →
Prof. Roopa Madhav
roopa.madhav@vidyashilp.edu.in
Program Chair and Dean, School of Legal Studies and Governance
Know More →
Dr. Ranjana Raghunathan
ranjana.r@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Arts and Design
Know More →
Dr. D. C. Kiran
dc.kiran@vidyashilp.edu.in
Associate Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. Bipin Sony
bipin.sony@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor of Economics and Finance
Know More →
Dr. Priyambada Tripathi
priyambada.t@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. Mahendra B M
mahendra.bm@vidyashilp.edu.in
Associate Professor School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. Neha Khurana
neha.k@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Arts and Design Studies
Know More →
Dr. Sheetal Bharat
sheetal.bharat@vidyashilp.edu.in
Associate Professor, School of Liberal Arts and Design Studies
Know More →
Dr. Ravi Kant Rai
ravikant.rai@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. Jobeth Ann Warjri
jobeth.a@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Arts and Design Studies,
Know More →
Dr. Devanand Thanissery
devanand.t@vidyashilp.edu.in
Assistant Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
Know More →
Dr. Anuj Verma
anuj.verma@vidyashilp.edu.in
Associate Professor, School of Business Studies
Know More →
Dr. Shabbeer Basha
shabbeer.basha@vidyashilp.edu.in
Associate Professor, School of Computational and Data Sciences
ADMISSIONS
ENTRANCE TEST
ELIGIBILITY
With both full-time and part-time program options, admissions will be strictly based on merit
and availability of seats. This will be determined through our Entrance Test followed by an
Interview.
VIEW ADMISSION SCHEDULE
CET FEE STRUCTURE
Click here to download Ph.D. Program CET Fee Structure (2025–26)
Downloaded successfully. Thanks!
Release of Advertisement for Applications
21 th  July 2025 (Monday)
Last Date of Submission of Application
04 th  August 2025 (Monday)
List of applicants who qualified for the Entrance Test
06 th  August 2025 (Wednesday)
Date and timings of Entrance Test at campus
14 th  August 2025 (Thursday)
Declaration of Entrance Test result and list of applicants qualified for the Interview
14 th  August 2025 (Thursday)
Interview of Qualified Candidates
14 th  August 2025 (Thursday)
Declaration of Final List of those selected for the Ph.D. Program
21 st  August 2025 (Thursday)
Last Date for Payment of Fees
29 th  August 2025 (Friday)
Registration and Commencement of the PhD Program
01 st  September 2025 (Monday)
VIEW FEE STRUCTURE
The PHD Fee Structure for the academic year 2025 is available for download below.
Download
Candidates fulfilling the minimum eligibility criteria for Ph.D. Admission
are required to take the Vidyashilp University Ph.D. Entrance Test (PET) followed by an
Interview/Viva Voce. The candidates must obtain a minimum of 50% marks in the PET to qualify for the Interview/Viva Voce
Exemption from PET
Candidates fulfilling the following criteria will be exempted from PET and will directly appear for the Interview/Viva Voce:
UGC/CSIR/NET/GATE/CEED qualified research fellows or project fellows/research fellows sponsored by the UGC/CSIR/ICSSR/NDF/ICMR/DBT/NBHM or other such recognized national/international organizations.
Obtained M.Phil. Degree and satisfies the eligibility criteria.
Submitted M.Phil. Dissertation but Viva Voce examination and award of degree is pending. However, such candidates, if selected, will be admitted to the Ph.D. Program only on completion of the M.Phil. Degree as per the eligibility criteria.
Our doctoral program is designed to develop outstanding researchers
who have been at the forefront of their academic journey and have
a deep understanding of the real-world challenges they study.
VIEW ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Candidates seeking admission to the Ph.D. Program need to have completed either of the following requirements:
A 1-year Master's degree Program (after 4 year undergraduate degree) with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade 'B' in the UGC 10- point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) or an equivalent degree from a foreign educational institution accredited by an Assessment and Accreditation Agency which is approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit or assure quality and standards of educational institutions,
Or
A 2-year Master’s degree Program, with the same conditions as above,
Or
Candidates need to have also completed
A 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research with a minimum CGPA of
7.50 on the UGC-10 point scale, or an equivalent grade,
Or
A 4-Year Bachelor’s degree in Engineering / Technology / with a minimum
CGPA of 7.50 on the UGC-10 point scale, or an equivalent grade.
M.Phil. coursework with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade 'B' in the UGC 10-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) or an equivalent degree from a Foreign Institution accredited by an Assessment and Accreditation Agency which is approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit or assure quality and standards of educational institutions, shall be eligible for admission to the Ph.D. Program.
Other criteria:
A candidate whose M.Phil. dissertation has been evaluated and recommended for award of the degree, may be admitted to the Ph.D. Program on a provisional basis even before the viva-voice or final defence
The relaxation of the eligibility criteria for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-Abled, Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and other categories of candidates shall be as per the directives of the UGC/State Government.
Any amendments in the eligibility criteria notified by UGC/Statutory bodies from time to time shall be applicable and notified by the University.
Part-time scholars admitted to the Ph.D. program must submit a ‘No Objection Certificate’ from their employer to the effect that the duties allotted by the employer will allow the required time for pursuit of the research work and completion of the mandatory Ph.D. coursework requirements.
Any full-time employee of Vidyashilp University admitted to the Ph.D. program will need to resign from the University employment and change their status to either a full-time or a part-time scholar.
SCHOLARSHIPS
The University has instituted the Vidyashilp University Research Fellowship, to further foster and promote an interdisciplinary and interconnected approach to Research, Innovation and Problem Solving.
Applicants admitted to the full-time Ph.D. program are eligible for this fellowship.
To know more about eligibility and other conditions
DOWNLOAD INFORMATION BOOKLET
PROGRAM REGULATIONS
KNOW MORE
#125, Bettenahalli, Kundana Hobli,  Chapparkallu Road, Bengaluru - 562110
For all admission-related queries,
Write to:    admission@vidyashilp.edu.in
Or call the admissions team:    080 6963 0500
Schools
- School of Computational and    Data Sciences
- School of Liberal Arts and    Design Studies
- School of Business Studies
- School of Legal Studies and   Governance
Quick Links
- About
- Programs
- Admission
- Enquiry
- Privacy & Policy
- Media
- Careers
- Mandatory Documents
- Sitemap
- Contact Us
© 2024 Vidyashilp.  Vidyashilp University is established under Karnataka Act No.20 of 2021
APPLY NOW