Vidyashilp — Scholarships
<span class="copy enb" style="color: white !important;
font-family: 'Mona Sans', sans-serif !important;">
Enabling Every Deserving Student to Rise Above Their Circumstances
University education is an investment in one's future.
Pursuing an education defined by rigor, interdisciplinarity,
and global standards should be an aspiration for all,
not a privilege reserved for a few.
Many exceptional learners bring remarkable talent and determination,
yet face financial realities that can quietly derail their plans for
higher education.
Honouring the passion and commitment of such bright talents,
Vidyashilp University offers structured scholarships across categories
so that their circumstances shall never overshadow their potential.
Vidyashilp University's Long-standing
Commitment to Talent
Over the 40+ years of unwavering commitment to education,
Vidyashilp has witnessed, up close, the challenges faced by
some of the brightest students. As attuned as anyone,
we made a conscious commitment to our students and to society
that we would put our best foot forward in helping them accomplish
their dreams.
Scholarship Types
Vidyashilp University offers merit-based, need-based and other scholarships
to deserving students, reinforcing the University’s commitment to
recognising talent and making global education more accessible.
P. Dayananda Pai Scholarship - This scholarship recognises highly meritorious
students who demonstrate outstanding academic performance (80%–100%).
SAT Scholarships - Dean's Honor's Scholarship (25 % - 50%) -
Supports students who achieve a SAT score of 1300 or above.
Talent-based scholarships -
Reward students who show exceptional commitment to sports, music,
performing arts, and other creative pursuits.
Need-based Scholarships -
These scholarships assist students who demonstrate strong academic
rigor and come from families with limited financial means to support
their higher education goals.
Other Categories
These scholarships uphold a commitment to the academic distinction and
holistic development of students from:
A single-parent household
A single girl child
First-generation graduate aspirants
Children of Indian Armed Forces
Please note:
Students/Parents can express their interest in applying for
scholarships under any of the categories mentioned above and apply online.
A set of eligibility criteria governs every scholarship for our
interdisciplinary academic programs and attracts a predetermined
% fee waiver, provided all the eligibility criteria are met.
A student can not apply for more than one scholarship.
The scholarship committee's decision is final.
Vidyashilp University is where global aspirations meet Indian innovation.
We're a future-forward institution, offering new-age, interdisciplinary programs
taught by world-class faculty.
Apply Now