URL: https://vidyashilp.edu.in/academic-excellence
TITLE: Experiential Learning - Vidyashilp University
DESCRIPTION: Vidyashilp University is one of the top colleges in Bangalore known for academic excellence. Join our wide selection of undergraduate programs for a bright future.
TYPE: html

Undergraduate Programz
VU is building strong collaborative relationships with industry, business, academia, and society in multi-faceted approaches to solving problems. We aim to provide our students and faculty with the tools to integrate research perspectives and provide innovative solutions, with an emphasis on deep interdisciplinary knowledge and design thinking
We are committed to ensuring that students, faculty, and staff have the best physical infrastructure and state-of-the-art laboratories, library, IT resources, classrooms, residence halls, recreational areas, and entertainment venues. We trust that these facilities empower the work of our faculty, staff, and students; and help attract the best and the brightest minds — to discover, teach, learn, live, and play
The various Schools of Learning at VU will be concentric in engagement and bring in interdisciplinary dependence to create deep domain knowledge for manifold applications. The design of curriculum and pedagogical approach at VU enables interdisciplinary problem-solving exposure for various enterprise/industry application contexts.
We aim to leverage the potential of technology enhanced learning to design a VU experience that better utilizes the expertise of faculty and
instructional design specialists.
Digital is evolving to become the default format of information. Hence, we contribute towards developing information and instructional design specialists as partners in research, teaching and learning.
The mission of the Centre for Learning Science and Technologies (CLST) is to inspire, enrich, and innovate Vidyashilp University’s collective practice and pursuit of excellence in teaching, learning and instructional design. Enhancing the learning and development experience for both teachers and students is pivotal to the role of the Centre.

EMAILS FROM SOURCE:
admission@vidyashilp.edu.in