Agenda-India Rising | Vidyashilp University
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WW96NSW5"
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
<ul class="navbar-nav ms-auto" style="font-weight: 500;
font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif !important;">
HOME
AGENDA
WORKSHOPS
VENUE
GALLERY
PREVIOUS EDITION
India Rising 2024
Home
Agenda
Workshops
Venue
Gallery
Previous Edition
India Rising 2024
AGENDA – Your Day at a Glance
A packed schedule of inspiring sessions, panel discussions, and VU student exhibits.
9:00 AM to 10:00 AM
🎟️ Registration & Morning Refreshments
Audience: Students, Parents, Educators
Kick-start the day with a hot beverage, light breakfast, and informal networking.
10:00 AM to 10:15 AM
🧘 Moment of Calm & Welcome
Audience: Students, Parents, Educators
A reflective start to the day with a grounding exercise, tone setting,
and a welcome address by Prof. P. G. Babu,
Vice-Chancellor, Vidyashilp University.
10:15 AM to 10:30 AM
🎤 Keynote Address - The Rise of The Indian Economy: A Quest towards Rational Exuberance
Audience: Students, Parents, Educators
An inspiring keynote on the future of education,
youth potential, and India’s rising knowledge economy.
10:30 AM to 11:15 AM
💬 Panel Discussion - Theme: Reimagining India vs Abroad in a Shifting Global Landscape
Audience: Students, Parents, Educators
For decades, studying abroad has been seen as the
ultimate marker of success — but is it always the
right choice? This high-stakes panel brings together
economists, legal luminaries, and admissions experts to unpack myths,
address realities of rising costs and immigration, and spotlight opportunities
in India’s evolving higher education landscape.
11:15 AM to 11:25 AM
🌟 New-Age Learning Showcase by VU Students
Audience: Students, Parents, Educators
Short, high-impact presentations where Vidyashilp University
students demonstrate interdisciplinary, hands-on learning in action.
11:25 AM to 01:10 PM
🎯 Parallel Tracks
Audience: Students, Parents, Educators
Competition Zone (for Students)
TechVenture Challenge  – Innovating solutions for tomorrow’s tech frontiers
Innovators’ Junction  – Designing interdisciplinary answers to real-world problems
Crime Lab Challenge  – Applying law, psychology, and logic in a simulated case
The Educators’ Panel Discussion –
Principals in Dialogue on Higher Education
Choices (for Parents & Educators)
Panel 1: Student Aspirations in Flux
How shifting global dynamics are changing the way
Indian students and families think about undergraduate education.
Panel 2: Preparing the Next-Gen for Bold Futures
What schools can do today to ready students
for an uncertain, interdisciplinary tomorrow — in India or abroad.
1:10 PM to 2:10 PM
🍱 Gala Lunch & Schools’ Learning Fair
Audience: Students, Parents, Educators
A networking lunch alongside interactive exhibit counters featuring
student projects, school showcases, and Vidyashilp University programs.
02:10 PM to 2:45 PM
🏆 Awards & Recognitions
Audience: Students, Parents, Educators
Student Awards:  Celebrating the boldest student teams from the Competition Zone.
K12 Leadership Awards:  In collaboration with  Vidyashilp University ,  EducationWorld  will felicitate Bangalore’s most impactful principals and school leaders through the  TREE Awards (Transforming Education Through Excellence)  — recognising those shaping the future of education with innovation and purpose.
Copyright © 2025 VIDYASHILP UNIVERSITY